At a rate somewhere between once per week and once per month I think about hands.

My hands, in a concrete sense, but also our hands. Humanity's hands. And I marvel at them in a way that's basically the same as a teenager smoking pot for the first time might marvel at the fact that he has hands at all.

Like today, after leaving the 7-11 with an umbrella, a coffee, and a sandwich, and seeing how all three of these items somehow sorted themselves into a kind of kamasutra grip, still leaving my right free to roam unencumbered.

And it's not like I had to think about this at all, or plan it out. Our hands just do it. Every day, with novel objects and in unfamiliar situations, they adapt, and grip, and feel, and express.

### a brief rant

Usually when these things happen, I'm reminded of Bret Victor's *[Brief Rant on the Future of Interaction Design](http://worrydream.com/#!/ABriefRantOnTheFutureOfInteractionDesign)*.

> Go ahead and pick up a book. Open it up to some page. Notice how you know where you are in the book by the distribution of weight in each hand, and the thickness of the page stacks between your fingers. Turn a page, and notice how you would *know* if you grabbed two pages together, by how they would slip apart when you rub them against each other.
>
> Now, take out your favorite Magical And Revolutionary Technology Device. Use it for a bit. What did you feel? Did it feel *glassy*? Did it have *no connection whatsoever* with the task you were performing?
>
> I call this technology **Pictures Under Glass**. Pictures Under Glass sacrifice all the tactile richness of working with our hands, offering instead a hokey visual facade.

My own prison for pictures under glass often finds itself tangled in the same kinds of erotic object-play as most other objects would, wedged between my little fingers as the others might hold open a wallet; but in those poses it is sterile, bricked. And as for the content that brick holds, it is forever outside my grasp.

And I hope that someday our hands will have more to do with our technology than swipe, slide, and tap.